>> David Khourshid: Great.
So
we are going to jump
into the next exercise.
And so what we're going to
be doing is two things.
First, we have a flight booking form.
We're going to be combining
related state variables.
And this is just again
to practice getting used
to combining related state
into one single use state.
And also because there is some loading and
error and success states,
we also want to remove the Boolean
flags and create finite states instead.
And you could start by just having
a simple status as a string enum, or
if you want to again go above and beyond,
you can use discriminated unions and
use those type states.
All right, so let's clean this up
a little bit with some finite states and
combining things.
Another thing that I really want to talk
about too is the strangler fig pattern.
And this is actually going to help us
solve this exercise because likely you
don't want to just delete code and
replace code and then pray that it works.
Instead, you really want to check
side by side if the code that you're
replacing the previous code with
is going to be the correct result.
So we could combine pretty much all of
these, like the destination, departure,
arrival and passengers together and
we could combine it into one.
Let's call this flight data.
And actually it's not going to be that.
Let's turn off this.
So this is going to be the destination,
departure, arrival and passengers.
And so this is going to be
the default states over here.
So we have empty string, empty string,
empty string and passengers.
We'll just default it to 1.
And so again, we are going to
identify these Boolean variables
which are actually mutually exclusive.
And we're going to change this and
put it into a status.
So const.
Status, set status.
We're going to use dates.
And so we could start off with saying
that, you know, maybe it's idle.
We didn't do anything yet.
But we could change this
to a string string type or
what I like to call a string enum.
Or at least it functions like when
it's not literally a string enum.
So idle, submitting error and success.
And so what this allows us to
do is we could actually just
side by side work on a, you know,
work on refactoring this
while just maintaining the same
structure that we have.
So for example, when we set
the destination instead of this,
we could just, we could set the flight
data to again, we're using previous.
So we are going to get
the previous data and
set the destination to E target value.
And so we could do this for
the other ones too.
Just to make sure that everything works.
So I'm going to do this for that.
And again, this is the exact
same thing that we're doing.
We're taking the previous data and
we're just updating that one field
over there and same thing over here.
Another quick trick.
You see that we're doing
parseints over here.
What we could actually do is
E target value as number and
that basically does the exact same thing.
So then when we have
things like issubmitting,
we could do one of two things here.
We could either keep the same variable or
we could have a more
explicit like flight data.
We don't have the status.
So we could say status issubmitting or
like we learned about in
our first exercise, and
this is actually a really good way to not
change too much code but
still do the refactor that you want to do.
We could keep that issubmitting and
instead we could derive that data.
So we have our status over here.
We could say const isSubmitting is
basically if the status is submitting.
So these boolean flags become
something that's derived rather than
something that becomes a source of truth.
So again, that first exercise is
really showing us how we could
improve the way that
we model these things.
So now if I get rid of this, we see
a bunch of variables together over here.
And so instead of all of that, we could
just set the status to submitting and
then get rid of the other ones.
And then we'll set
the selected flights to null.
This is also a good indication that
if you want to, you could use type
states to really combine that into
a single cohesive state variable.
So instead of set success true,
we could set the status to success.
And then over here we could
set the status to an error.
So now you're going to see that again,
lots of red here.
We're no longer using this.
So we could do things
like derive more data.
So we could say destination
is flightdata.des Station and
in fact we could just pull out departure,
arrival and passengers from here.
And that way we have limited
changes to our code, but
we can reduce the number
of use states that we have.
And we could have all related
data in a single object.
So just going through this again,
we no longer need things like set
iserror true because now we're
setting the status to an error.
And so same thing over here,
iserrorn is success.
You could either change that to
checking the actual status or
you could derive that data.
So we could say const iserror is
if status is equal to error or
const issuccess is equal to if
the status is a success and
then everything should
work the exact same.
So again, being able to look at
your application and understand
the different flows that it could be in
is really going to help you out here.
So in this case we know that
this can be considered some
sort of an idle state and
you might choose a date and
then we have this loading state over
here which we could visually verify.
Then we have the state over here
where we successfully have data.
We could select a flight and
we could see that booking summary.
And if we wanted to,
this can be a different state on its own.
That is actually going to be the case
when we go into future exercises.
So yeah,
any questions about this exercise and
how we refactored everything
>> Speaker 2: not directly related to
the exercise, but
there was a question about your opinion on
using arrow functions within a handler,
because isn't passing the function
directly to the handler better approach?
>> David Khourshid: Okay, so yeah,
the question was about, for example,
handleFlightSelect if
you could do it here.
So it sort of doesn't matter to me.
It is dependent on your team though.
So some of your team might like to put
all of their handlers up in front and
I think that that's a very
good way to see everything.
Just like that principle we talked about
where we're separating the framework
from the actual logic.
And so by having the handlers up in here,
then you see all of the logic together and
then all of the UI below that.
So it is pretty nice to do that
in terms of arrows or functions,
that doesn't matter to me either.
But yeah, another thing that some
people could do is instead of handle
Flight select, they might just set
selected flights directly over here.
And I honestly think that that's fine too.
If you find yourself repeating that a lot,
that's where a handler might be useful.
I think a lot of React
developers do go overboard and
they try to memoize that by
putting it in a use callback.
And honestly, if you don't need it,
then it doesn't really
matter if you do it or not.
I like to only memoize if I
notice that there's a problem.
>> Speaker 3: Isn't there some kind of
performance overhead associated with
UseMemo and Use Callback too?
So if you're using it
when you don't need to,
it can actually make things perform worse.
>> David Khourshid: Exactly, yeah.
This is something that you
learn in computer science.
I only took a couple of classes, but
when you're doing optimizations such
as caching, memoization, et cetera.
It's not that you're making
everything magically faster.
You, you're trading performance for
memory, so there are trade offs there.
And so if you try to use Memo everywhere,
then the internal memory used by the React
app will, you know, it might balloon,
it might slow things down, honestly,
like everything's a micro optimization
until you actually run into the issues and
see that, okay, this is slow, but if I
do this, then it's definitely visually
faster for the user, especially on a slow
connection or low powered computer.
So yeah, I like to be pragmatic about
performance basically only when necessary.
>> Speaker 4: I know React19's goal is to
release the compiler in its full state and
so therefore they're attempting to try and
minimize the need for
UseMemo and Use Callback.
What's your take or
opinion on that shift in their paradigm?
>> David Khourshid: I think that,
yeah, the React compiler is great and
this is more reason to use idiomatic
React patterns and not try to do
anything crazy or try to over memoize or
do callbacks or things like that.
I will say that in larger code bases too.
First of all, with React Compiler there is
that expectation that you're using React
and React hooks as designed.
However, I have seen in many code bases,
and
it's sort of inevitable with larger
code bases that people will have a long,
long dependency array with like five or
seven different items inside and they
will be missing maybe one or two different
variables that should be in there,
but they'll be missing them on purpose
because if you add those variables in,
then the useeffect might run multiple
times or the usememo will unnecessarily
call itself again and maybe have a side
effect in the usememo, who knows.
But the idea is that they will
disable the eslint rule for
that dependency array because it's one
of those it works, don't touch it.
And if you complete the dependency
array with everything required,
then it's going to break.
And so there's so much of this in
existing React applications and
that actually doesn't work well
with the React's compiler.
So that's why I say try to avoid having
too many things in dependency arrays or
even using hooks that require
the use of dependency arrays.
It's going to make your life simpler and
it's going to make React compiler work
a lot better because you're just
doing things the most natural way.